---
layout: post
title:  "Stereotype Threat"
categories: jekyll update
---

According to Claude Steele, stereotype threat is defined as being in a situation or doing something for which a negative stereotype about one of your identities applies to you or could be applied to you. He sees stereotype threat as a major barrier that can hold us back, but specifically has conducted studies in regards to women, blacks and other minority groups. For those individuals, there is a fear of being judged through the lens of that negative stereotype, which could then result in negative performance, specifically in regards to academic and workplace achievement. For those that really care about what they are doing, then the idea of being judged only through that lens is very detrimental.

I thought that this discussion was extremely interesting. I classify as both woman and black. So I feel that this idea of stereotype threat is definitely a discussion that has been around for some time. However, it has never been something to the forefront of my mind. Perhaps subconsciously, I have no idea, but I have never consciously thought about people judging me other than the way I present myself in academic settings. I have never thought that if I turn in this essay, that the professor will judge it through another set of lenses. Academically, I feel that I suffer from imposter syndrome and that has been especially pronounced while going through phase 0. The material is difficult and often I feel inadequate and keep wondering if I am capable of doing well in this field, especially compared to many of my peers that seem to fly by these exercises. But though I feel like that sometimes, I will never give up. I will get this no matter what. Even if I have to work a lot harder, this stuff will eventually make sense to me and become easier. That is how I combat the feeling of inadequacy.

So though I do not think of stereotype threat so much in an academic setting, I do wonder about it in terms of a workplace setting, especially in the process of applying to jobs. I have a different sounding name, I am a woman, and I am black. If I apply to a lot of jobs and do not get anything, could it be because of my race or my gender? But then I may feel that way because of hearing feedback from other people who had negative experiences, though I personally have not. But even so, I do not like to dwell on it too much because I do not think it helps me to think about negative consequences before they occur. Even if something is that way, I still need to go out and get a job. I have to earn income and I have to help my family. Even if there is injustice, I still have to persevere through it to do what I need to do to survive in this society. And for anyone else feeling it, I would let them know they are not on their own. We all feel some form of it from time to time. But the important thing is to not let those feelings conquer us. We have to rise above it and do the best we can, especially by surrounding ourselves with positive, encouraging people and an uplifting environment. And I have been very fortunate to have such a wonderful support group through my family, friends, teachers, and mentors.