---
layout: post
title:  "My Values"
categories: jekyll update
---

Out of the times in my life where I have felt the happiest, proudest or most satisfied, the values that come to mind are ambition, excitement, knowledge and helping others. For me, many of these values go hand in hand and cannot be separated. First and foremost, I love helping others and feeling like I can make a difference. In college, I was a part of an organization that worked with middle school students that needed a place to just relax, feel safe and play. A lot of them had rough childhoods and just needed that place to decompress. I did not do very much other than just talk with them, help them with homework if they needed it, serve food or just hang out and play games. But I loved it. I felt like even though I could not take away the hardships, I knew that I could bond and relate to them in certain ways and I feel that I got so much from that experience. I was always excited to go see them and I was always excited to see what I could learn. I decided a long time ago that even if I did not see it, there is always a learning experience somewhere and I can always gain something from others. And even from those little kids, I learned how to work with a lot of different personalities. And I also learned to be careful in passing judgments on others because I have no idea of what it is like in their shoes. Now, I do not fear middle school students like I used to! Another important value that goes hand in hand is ambition. I want to be a good role model for those kids. I want to show them that the difference between succeeding in life and not doing as well is just your level of ambition. When you are ambitious, you do not want to settle for less than you think you deserve. So you keep on keeping on and along the way, you figure things out, meet others who want to join you and help you succeed and you never stop. Through that experience, I have learned what values I stand for and every day from the knowledge I am obtaining in everything I see and do, I continue to solidify and add values that are meaningful to my definition of self.

One of my best friends, who I consider like my little sister, asked me for advice in regards to her career path. I am always very cautious about giving advice. Advice is free and you can give it to anyone, but it does not always apply to everyone. So I do not like to give advice, but prefer to draw on my own experience and engage the other person in discussion. That way, we exchange dialogue back and forth and often, I find the other person answering their own questions, or at least, feel better by just talking it out.

When I think of my values, I feel very inspired and motivated, because I know what I stand for and know that even though some values may change and evolve over time, I feel content making decisions based on those values that I consider the most important. If I feel down at DBC, I would keep reminding myself why I am there. I would want to remind myself what steps I took to get to DBC and what my end goals are. With those in mind, as well as talking with my support system, I know that I can get through any tough time.