---
layout: post
title:  "Pairing and Feedback"
categories: jekyll update
---

At first, I was very hesitant to pair with others, as I thought I worked best on my own and pairing with others would take more time. And yes, sometimes it does take more time, but I found other times when the material is a lot harder, it is better to have someone there to think up ideas and research together. In fact, I have learned a lot of different things, not just about coding, but also in terms of using sublime or just how to zoom in and out of the screen, and the most helpful, how to comment out without having to put a hash symbol on each individual line. One thing that I have to work on is feeling less stupid when working with those that understand the concepts a lot better than I do. I think the only way to help of course, is to work on further developing my skills by reading and doing more research, and focusing on learning what I can from my partner instead of paying attention to those negative feelings. So, I have definitely enjoyed my pairing experiences.

I would say that reading my feedback was a little discouraging sometimes. I do understand that the idea of feedback is to give constructive criticism to help you better develop, but I have never done very well with receiving criticism, as I think it is a reflection of myself, which makes it a bit hurtful. That is one characteristic of myself that I will have to work a lot harder to be better at accepting it and using it to improve myself. I think so far, the criticism I have received have been for things that I am already aware of, so I have not been very surprised, so I need to learn how to best use and apply this feedback. Just like receiving feedback, I find it difficult to give others feedback as well. Sometimes, it is just that I have no idea on how they can improve, and other times when I do see a place for improvement, I often try to sugarcoat it and say that it is something that both of us need to work on (if I think I could improve too), or just try to sandwich it between positive traits because I do not want to be too mean. I think that so far, pairing has been very useful to my learning. In regards to feedback, I think that one is going to be a work in progress.