---
layout: post
title:  "Where is the Diversity?"
categories: jekyll update
---

One of the major challenges the tech industry faces today is a lack of diversity, especially in regards to women and African-Americans, of which I classify as both. And so this particular topic is very interesting to me. And one thing I found very interesting is that while growing up, I was never exposed to computer science. Never. Never thought about it, and never was encouraged to learn anything about it. However, I have 3 brothers. And every single one of them went into the tech industry. I did not think I would ever be interested, not until I stumbled on an article online about why everyone should learn how to code in my twenties. And even then I asked myself, is this for me? I do not see that many people that look like me in this industry. Is this something that I can be good at and succeed? And when I have asked other women and minorities like me, they all mention the same thing. They were not introduced or encouraged to pursue this field. And for those that were introduced and maybe took a class in the subject matter, many of them did not feel like they belonged.

One of the main places this problem can be addressed is in the schools, and many articles I read reinforce this idea. If computer science is exposed to children earlier on, there would be that many more that would embrace this field. But also, there needs to be a more nurturing and fostering environment. I myself have never experienced any discrimination or anyone telling me I could not do it. In fact, when I tell my brothers and other friends in the industry of my interest, they all encourage me to continue. So I think that fostering an environment of helping each other and being encouraging to one another is the best way to retain those that may be interested, but feel like they do not belong. Though I would say, that is a lot easier said than done.

And I know that there are a lot of people out there that are trying to change this. In fact, I was very encouraged to hear about a camp that teaches young girls how to code, which I find so inspiring. And in the news, there have been toys created for young girls to get them interested in programming at an early age. And so even though there may a lack of diversity now, I think we are moving in the right direction to increase those numbers.