---
layout: post
title:  "What is Rails?"
categories: jekyll update
---

Rails is a popular framework used for web development. It is an open-source web application framework that is written in Ruby and is designed so that it is easier to program web applications. It is a Ruby Gem that is installed to be added to the Ruby programming language. Along with Ruby, it also utilizes HTML, CSS and Javascript to create a web application that is run on a web server.

It includes two major principles. The first being DRY, or do not repeat yourself, in that code will be easier to maintain and have less major bugs. The next principle is convention over configuration, as Rails has a set of conventions that should be used in order to have the best rails experience. The programmer is encouraged to use those conventions. The conventions are codified as Rails API, which are the routines, protocols and tools to build applications. As a web framework, Rails utilizes the model-view-controller pattern, which is a software architectural pattern to implement user interfaces. It has three kinds of components that include a controller, a model, and a view. In the default configuration, a model in Rails maps to a table in a database and to a ruby file, a controller responds to external requests from the web server to the application, and a view in the default configuration is an erb file that generates an output to the user.

Check out the resources below:

[Wiki Ruby on Rails](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby_on_Rails)

[Guides Ruby on Rails](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/)

[Railsapp Ruby on Rails](http://railsapps.github.io/what-is-ruby-rails.html)