---
layout: post
title:  "Conflict"
categories: jekyll update
---

I am a person that does not like conflict. I like to avoid it if I can. But if I am confronted with it, then I am forced to deal with it. I was being trained for a position at work. I was replacing someone who was responsible for training me. We got along great (I thought) until my boss approached me to say that I was not doing what I was supposed to and instead, was doing whatever it is that I wanted to do. I was absolutely shocked. I had been under the impression that I was doing a very good job. And so confronted with this situation, I decided to call the person responsible for training me. I told her that I was surprised to have been told that I was not doing what I was supposed to, given she had never told me so. And I told her exactly how I felt. I told her I was confused and not happy that instead of her coming to talk to me directly, I had to hear this from my boss with no warning from her whatsoever.

From talking it out, we were able to discern that there was a major miscommunication between us that needed to be rectified. So though this was an unpleasant experience for me, our relationship became a lot stronger and whenever she had any concerns, she would directly tell me first. I think by addressing this situation head on, it was cleared up very fast. I am usually the type who avoids such conflict, but I felt that in this situation, it had to be addressed. I would do it the exact same way. I learned a little more about myself and my tolerance level. Usually when something unpleasant happens, I prefer to run away or ignore it. I learned that I can stand up for myself and not let others walk over me. I was very proud of myself and now, if I feel the need, I do say something if I feel that such conflict is better to be talked out as opposed to just letting it fizzle out.