---
layout: post
title:  "Kitchen vs. Table: Fireside Chat"
categories: jekyll update
---

I was very interested to hear about how DBC started up. It developed out of a need in the community to learn a vital skill without needing to invest 4 years into it. From starting week 0, I have already noticed how it is truly a community of people coming together for a common purpose. Talking to some of my cohort mates, they seem to be passionate and truly in it to make a difference in their lives. I am very excited that I will be around other like-minded people. We are all jumping off the ship together so we are all in it together. I am excited about this mentality and this culture. Because I am giving up comfort (my job), I am risking a lot. I know DBC is a wonderful program, but it is up to me to make the best of it, to learn everything I can and to make this journey amazing and life-changing. That falls on my shoulders. This falls on all of our shoulders to take this opportunity with an open mind and try to absorb everything we can. In my case, I am truly new at programming.I will have to work on developing confidence in myself to know that I can do this, and not look back. Unlike college where I just did whatever I could just to get good grades in class and literally forget about it when I no longer needed it, this time I am in it to learn. Yes, I also want a good job afterwards and to create opportunities for myself, but mostly, I just want to be in a learning frame of mind. I do not want to be stagnant.

I would say when I was applying to DBC, I knew a bit about it but I knew enough to know that I would fit right in. So my expectations regarding the culture has not changed and it truly is what I expected. I loved how Shereef mentioned that this is a big experiment. I am the kind of person who has often stayed in my comfort zone and has done everything because it was deemed safe. Go to college, graduate, get a good job with job security and stay there for 4o+ years. And for some people, that formula has worked out great. But I found that it was not exactly what I wanted. I want to think out of the box, do something out of the norm and experiment to find what it is that I want out of life. What a better way to start than with DBC! I am super excited that I have the opportunity to take part in DBC and change my life for the better. I am also nervous to get out of this comfort zone, but I know that I need to do it in order for me to develop into the person that I want to become. Someone who is happy that they are doing what they are doing, even if things do not always work perfectly. I want to do what I want, not what is expected of me by standards I did not define. And mostly, I want to be a student for life. I want to be someone who is always trying to learn something new and to become a better person in the process.