---
layout: post
title:  "Thinking Style"
categories: jekyll update
---

According to the personal thinking style quiz, I am considered an Abstract Random thinker. Actually I was surprised at how spot on it was in certain regards. I definitely learn best in a personalized environment, when I am given general guidelines, when I maintain good relationships with those around me, and when I participate in group activities. Even though I know some of these characteristics about myself, it has been an interesting struggle learning how to best tailor my learning habits to my thinking style, but it is one that I am learning to implement. I used to think that if I needed to do something, I would much rather do it myself and not depend on others, even though I do well when I work with others. And I started off thinking that way when I started phase 0. But slowly, I realized that I was really hurting myself. Others have different points of views and thinking styles and so they add way more to the table than I can by myself. And so I have started seeking others out, working with them and not just doing the bare minimum. And working with others has definitely improved my DBC experience.

 When I first started phase 0, I had no idea what I had gotten myself into and kept mainly to myself. I feared that if I reached out too much to others, I would lose too much time. And I kind of felt that way for the second week as well. But now for week 3, I worked a lot with other people and I understood a lot more material from talking with others than I would have ever understood learning on my own. Along with learning how to work more effectively with others, I also had to work on time-management. That has been one of my biggest struggles. Being that I work full-time and have something to do every single day of the week, having DBC fit into my schedule has been a struggle. I never have personal time to myself or with my family. And I started complaining about it. But then I started thinking, DBC is truly going to change my life for the better. It is going to give me the skillset and the mindset that I need in order to pursue my goals and ambitions. And because I feel that way, then I need to make DBC one of my top priorities. So now, instead of asking myself how I am going to fit DBC work into things, it is the opposite. How do I fit in my other activities alongside my DBC work? And just that slight change in thinking has changed everything for me. It has made me more mindful of my time, as well as more disciplined and motivated to succeed. And that has been part of the growth mindset that I am trying to develop in order to become a better-rounded individual.