---
layout: post
title:  "DBC Phase 1"
categories: jekyll update
---

My first week of Phase 1, I asked myself what was I doing there. I was extremely overwhelmed at everything that was occurring and felt so lost and behind. On my first day, we had six challenges to complete as well as two additional optional assignments. Not only was I overwhelmed at the amount of work I had, but also I was also surprised that I would be pairing with one person for that entire day. In Phase 0, we had had some practice with pairing, but you were not stuck with that person for a whole day worth of assignments. I was exhausted towards the end of the day from coding all day and also had to keep in mind that I was working with someone, so I had to do my best to keep my energy up, which was extremely difficult. We mainly worked on Ruby and understanding enumerable methods and reading errors. On the second day, we had way more challenges and the difficulty level kept increasing. We worked more on enumerable methods and started to work with Regular Expressions, which we had not done a ton of in Phase 0. The first couple of days were difficult but once I got used to the idea of coding all day and working with one person, it was not so bad. Not until I got to day 3 did I feel like I was out of my element. We started working on recursion and search algorithms and it was pretty difficult. My partner that day already had some prior experience with programming, so working with him was a lot less frustrating than it would have been to work on my own. But even though it was nice working with him, I regretted not making a bigger effort to get my hands on the keys and for letting him do most of the reasoning. At that time, I figured that I did not want to slow him down and that I could always go home and review. But I soon found that more material was coming up and it was very difficult to go back and work on prior work. On Thursday, we started to work with creating games like Ruby Racer and Boggle and finally on Friday, we worked on creating a Sudoku Solver. When working on Sudoku, I felt even more overwhelmed, but I had such a great group to work with and we were able to solve most of the Sudoku puzzles using our solver, which felt pretty great.

Because week 1 was so algorithm heavy and I felt like it was difficult, I enjoyed week 2 and 3 because we worked more on Object-Oriented principles as well as learning how to better use RSPEC for testing, which I enjoyed a lot more. On Monday, we learned more about scope, and self and using assessors. On Tuesday, we learned about ARGV, inheritance, and also how to parse data using CSV. On Wednesday, we learned how to scrape websites for information using Nokogiri as well as using named arguments. On Thursday, we had a mock assessment, which was pretty nice because I got to utilize my new-found skills and also let me know where I needed to focus on, and after that, we had to implement a to-do list using MVC concepts. For that particular challenge, I found it really important to get the principles right, so I paired with a mentor who worked with me for over 3 hours to go through my code and make it more MVC, which was extremely helpful to my understanding. On Friday, we had a group challenge of crating a flashcard game, which was pretty fun to implement. On the third week, we started back on SQL, which I enjoyed because we went really in depth and so I felt like I had a pretty good understanding. On Monday, we worked on SQL. On Tuesday and Wednesday, we did more with SQL and also started on Active Record. On Wednesday, we had a more in-depth look at Active Record, which was extremely useful. On Thursday, we had our actual assessment which would determine whether we would move on to th next phase, in which I did pretty well, even though I did not initally think I did. And finally on Friday, we revisited creating a to-do list using Active Record.