---
layout: post
title:  "DBC Phase 2"
categories: jekyll update
---

Phase 2 was extremely packed with information and probably was the most I have ever felt in terms of being overwhelmed. On the first day, we focused on writing more RSPEC and also more on Active Record. On Tuesday we learned about HTTP and also about Sinatra. I enjoyed learning about Sinatra, but I found HTTP to be very abstract and initially, very hard to understand. On Wednesday, we worked more on Active Record and also on becoming better with HTML and CSS. On Thursday, we were introduced to CRUD and REST principles. It was so much to take in and I felt extremely behind. Finally on Friday, we were introduced to Sessions and User Authentication, as well as Agile practices and using Scrum boards. We also had a group project of creating a Flashcard game using Sinatra and RESTful practices.

The first week was jam-packed, but nothing compared to week 2. On Monday, we talked about the BCrypt gem and then we had to further work on Crud, as well as learn about deploying using Heroku. On Tuesday, we started with Javascript and were also introduced to jQuery. On Wednesday, we learned about Ajax. On Thursday, we had our mock assessment which covered using CRUD and ajax, and I did not do super well. I felt like I had no idea what was going on. Finally on Friday, groups worked on implementing Survey Monkey, which was difficult but which helped me get a better understanding of sessions and user authentication, since I decided to work on those features. The week was overwhelming but the third week was mainly reviewing the material we had already learned, so it was a much-needed break.

On Monday, we did more Sinatra and Javascript challenges. On Tuesday, we had to work on refactoring as well as using Test-Driven Development with Jasmine. On Wednesday, we had more time with reviewing those concepts to get us ready for the actual phase assessment the next day. Because I felt like I was behind most of the time, I really wanted to repeat Phase 2 so I could get more time with the material. However when Thursday came, we had to implement a full CRUD app as well as ajaxify it, and things started clicking and making sense. I did very well and so moved on to the next phase. Finally on Friday, we started working with Twitter’s API, which was nice because I figured we would be using a lot of API’s in the Phase 3.