---
layout: post
title:  "DBC Phase 3"
categories: jekyll update
---
I really enjoyed Phase 3 because it was a time that I really got to implement skills I had learned from all the past phases in actual web applications using Rails. On Monday, we worked on converting our Sinatra applications to using Rails, which was pretty awesome, since Rails made a lot of things simpler. But, I found that I was resisting a bit because I had finally gained a solid understanding of Sinatra so I was a bit unhappy about having to switch again. But eventually, I found Rails a lot cooler to use. We also focused more on RSPEC and using TDD, as well as understanding Git workflow. On Tuesday, we talked more about RSPEC and Rails, and had an introduction to Integration Testing, which I initially did not enjoy at all. RSPEC was always something that I was scared of for some reason, so when we were told that we had to write RSPEC for features, controllers and unit tests, I was a bit worried. On Wednesday, we had group challenges, which we had to implement using Rails. My group decided to create a game similar to cards against humanity. I actually struggled a lot with that challenge. I had never played that game before so I was already behind, and then it was very algorithm-heavy, which I still struggled with. However, I did learn a lot from that challenge, especially from working on RPSEC as well as a better understanding of UI design. We worked on that challenge until Sunday and then had to present it on Monday.

During the following week on Monday, we had a more review time with Javascript as well as jQuery. On Tuesday, we had an opportunity to work on open source projects, which I really enjoyed! The project I contributed to actually ended up merging my changes, which was an extremely amazing feeling. On Wednesday, we had to present a talk about a gem we had researched. In my case, I decided to research about Angular JS and ended up creating a to-do list using Angular, which was pretty amazing to research and talk about. I really enjoyed that part, and then afterwards, we had to talk about final presentations and ended up finding out what groups we would be working on and on what projects.

I ended up working on a music-sharing app with three other people. We had eight days to complete this challenge and so we had to brainstorm extensively to figure out what features we wanted to work on for this project. The idea was that we wanted users to be able to see other users near them and be able to look at the other users’ playlist and listen to their songs. The user could create new playlists, add songs to their playlists, tag a location to their playlist, among other features. We ended up using Firebase as well as HTML5 and its geolocation methods as well as geofire. It ended up working, but became extremely slow depending on the amount of users logged in, so we ended up switching to geocoder, which was worked out great. In terms of music API, we started off with Spotify and eventually had to switch to GrooveShark, because Spotify would redirect the users back to its own page once a user wanted to listen to songs. Grooveshark initially ended up working great for us and we were able to implement many of the features we wanted. However the night before we had to present our final project, we started getting banned from Grooveshark from our extensive tests and it was too late to go back. During our presentation, we did very well, but we did end up getting banned, but eventually we were able to play our music. But to us, it was not a failure, which we explained to the audience.

We learned a lot from our successes, but we learned even more from our failures. I personally had been struggling a lot with confidence issues throughout my time with Dev Bootcamp, but this final project was so demanding that I had to jump in wherever I was needed and work on both front-end as well as back-end development. I really proved to myself and to others that I am very capable and though programming has never been easy to me, I have learned that I need to be comfortable being uncomfortable, because programming is a field that is ever changing. New technologies are always being created and so the field is constantly changing. And that was what initially attracted me to the tech field, but also something that scared me about the tech field. And I cannot say that I am not worried, but I am a lot more confident that because of my experience from Dev Bootcamp, I am capable to handle anything thrown my way, or at least, I know that it is alright to ask questions and that I am never alone. I really enjoyed my experience at Dev Bootcamp and for anyone that is interested in programming and does not know where to start, I highly recommend they take a look at Dev Bootcamp, who has an amazing culture and even more amazing instructors who believe in you and challenge you to be better.